Add doc for filter support for cli tools (#11012)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/setup/reference/predicate-language.mdx

---
title: Predicate Language
description: How to use predicate language used to define filter conditions.

> h1: Predicate Language

Reviewer: We can remove this since it's the same as the title.

---

> Predicate language is used to define filter or where condition for select resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Teleport's predicate language is used to define conditions for filtering or selecting resources.
```

Author: i think my original message was misunderstood, so I modified it to this:

```
Teleport's predicate language is used to define conditions for filtering in resources.
```
unless i'm misunderstanding the use case

It is also used as a query language to filter and search through a [list of select resources](#resource-filtering).

> The predicate language support slightly differs depending on where it is used as explained in the next sections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The predicate language uses a slightly different syntax depending on whether it is used in:

- [Role resources](#scoping-allow-deny-rules-in-role-resources)
- [Resource filtering](#resource-filtering)
```

I thought it would make sense to add a mini-TOC here so a reader can find the relevant section.

## Defining Filter or Where Conditions in Role Resources

> Some fields in our role resources uses the predicate language:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some fields in Teleport's role resources use the predicate language to define the scope of a role's permissions:
```
To expand on this a bit

- [Dynamic Impersonation](./access-controls/guides/impersonation/#dynamic-impersonation)

> - [RBAC for sessions](./access-controls/reference/#rbac-for-sessions)

Author: the predicate language is also used for `access requests`, but i could not find documentation on how to define the fields (so i left it out for now). there are mentions of the field here though but with no examples: https://goteleport.com/docs/setup/reference/terraform-provider/#teleport_role, 

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/43280172/158225941-90699517-5f46-458e-a64f-e4d577ed51f5.png)

i'm not sure if these fields are only applicable to terraform provider?

| Operator | Meaning                                          | Example                                                          |
|----------|--------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|
| &&       | and (all conditions must match)                  | `contains(some.field1, "val1") && equals(some.field2, "val2")`   |
| \|\|     | or  (any one condition should match)             | `contains(some.field, "val1") \|\| contains(some.field, "val2")` |
| !        | not (used with functions, more about this below) | `!equals(some.field, "val")`                                     |

The language also supports the following functions:

| Functions                      | Description                                                           |
|--------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `contains(<field>, "<value>")` | checks if `<value>` is included in the list of strings from `<field>` |
| `equals(<field>, "<value>")`   | checks if `<value>` is equal to the value from `<field>`              |

> 

Author: i omitted the examples here b/c it differed depending on the resource field, so what i did was put a table of field names in the root guide: 

- impersonation: https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/blob/lisa/update-cli-doc/docs/pages/access-controls/guides/impersonation.mdx#filter-fields-explained
- roles: https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/blob/lisa/update-cli-doc/docs/pages/access-controls/reference.mdx#filter-fields-explained

---
title: Predicate Language
description: How to use Teleport's predicate language to define filter conditions.
---

> Teleport's predicate language is used to define conditions for filtering in resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Teleport's predicate language is used to define conditions for filtering in dynamic configuration resources.
```
